---
title: Original Xbox Modding
tags: xbox-original
cover: /_posts/xbox-original.png
---

# Getting Started
The most common reason people decide to mod an original xbox is the ability to install and play games (aka 'backup' games) directly to the hard drive, removing the requirement to have the disk in the drive to play the game. In my experience, this is because the first thing to go out is typically the DVD drive. About half of the xboxes I've encountered at the time of writing this (November 2020) have a dead DVD drive! So if you have a working one, consider yourself lucky. There are a few options to mod your system: softmods and hardmods. 



## Softmod your console
If you don't know where to start, use the below guide if you want to mod your xbox yourself. This is the softmod, which is great if you're new to modding, and the latest version is really reliable. If you have a dead disk drive and no friends to borrow one from, you'll need some experience soldering and access to some legacy tools for a hardmod. A hardmod is more reliable, but at the cost of more time, more experience, and a dedicated chip which are becoming harder to find... 

---

### checklist for softmodding your xbox
* working xbox (boots to stock dashboard)
  * working disk drive
* **ONE** of the following exploitable game
  * **--Recommended--** Splinter Cell: Stealth Action Refined (the first release of the game, and must *not* be a `greatest hits` edition)
  * 007: Agent Under Fire (select editions only! see 3rd party guide)
  * MechAssault
  * Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4 (select editions only! see 3rd party guide)
* old windows computer (win 7 or previous recommended. . compatibility mode doesn't always work!) 
  * it should have a dvd drive with r/rw abilities
* 1.1/2.0 USB (recommended 1GB or less memory! not all USB will work so lookup which are compatible beforehand)

If you have all of the above and some spare time, read through [this softmod guide](https://www.se7ensins.com/forums/threads/how-to-softmod-the-original-xbox-rocky5-2020.1771412/) which uses Rocky5's softmod (recommended)!

However, if you are missing one of the above or if you've somehow messed up the softmod, you'll have to resort to a hardmod. This requires the following:
* soldering iron, flux, and wire
* a modchip [like this Aladdin XT](https://www.amazon.com/Ximimark-Readable-Original-Suitable-Generation/dp/B07GWQXP62/ref=sxts_sxwds-bia-wc-p13n1_0?cv_ct_cx=aladdin&dchild=1&keywords=aladdin&pd_rd_i=B07GWQXP62&pd_rd_r=103b578a-aa3b-47fe-bd92-e9b6c0ce5d3b&pd_rd_w=7LxIS&pd_rd_wg=W0Bvn&pf_rd_p=aa27be45-7294-48a8-8c11-546cebd55a37&pf_rd_r=TYCQFE2AVQKRY8SD89HA&psc=1&qid=1602642788&sr=1-1-a14f3e51-9e3d-4cb5-bc68-d89d95c82244)
* a torx (size T8-T12) and phillips screwdriver
* some really thin (single-strand preferred) wire